You're in the right place if you use
Claude Chat everyday, are intimidated by
Claude Code, and know Claude Co-work
exists but not why you need it. Because
in this video, we're breaking down the
seven core capabilities of Claude
Co-work, each with real-world use cases,
so that by the end, you know exactly
what it can do and where it fits in your
workflow. Quick heads-up, I've been
making AI videos for about 3 years now,
and I've never felt this way about a
single tool. Let's get started. Kicking
things off with the three biggest
differences between Claude Chat, the
chatbot we're all very familiar with,
and Claude Co-work, the native desktop
app. First, while both Claude Chat and
Co-work require an internet connection,
Chat uploads files to the cloud, which
limits you to 20 files per conversation
and 30 megabytes per file. But, since
Co-work can access your local files,
neither of those limitations apply, and
so Co-work can easily handle more files
with larger file sizes. On top of that,
Co-work has a much larger context
window, meaning you can do a lot more
work before triggering the compacting
conversation function, which is
basically Claude summarizing your
previous context to free up space but
potentially losing important details in
the process. Difference number two,
Claude Chat gives you a response in a
chat window that you have to then copy,
format, or download yourself. While
Co-work actually does the work and
delivers ready-to-use files directly in
your folder. Spoiler alert, the final
output isn't limited to just local files
since Co-work can connect to external
pages in Notion directly, for example.
But, let's not get ahead of ourselves,
we'll cover that later. Third, as a
result of those first two differences,
we need to prompt Co-work differently
than Claude Chat. With Chat, we use
task-first language, [music] so we tell
it what to do step-by-step. For example,
review my raw thumbnail photos and
recommend a naming convention and folder
structure I should use. You get back a
recommendation in text, and then you go
do the work yourself. With Co-work, we
use outcome-first language, where we
define the end result, the constraints,
and the quality bar. For example, I have
15 raw thumbnail photos in this folder.
I need them organized into subfolders by
topic with descriptive file names.
[music] You let Co-work run, and 3
minutes later, the work is done. If
you're struggling with this, I prepared
a prompt template where you can just
describe what you're trying to do, and
it spits out a prompt that's optimized
for Claude Co-work, linked [music] down
below. Now, let's go over a few
essential settings so that Co-work is
set up properly. First, make sure the
Co-work tab is selected, and then under
settings, the first general tab here,
this is where you'll find personal
preferences that apply to both Claude
Chat and Co-work. But, if you go down to
the Co-work tab, you'll be able to add
instructions that apply to Co-work only.
I've actually put together a starter
pack of instructions beginners can just
copy and paste immediately out of the
goodness of my heart, obviously, and not
at all because I'm trying to build a
parasocial relationship so that one day
you'll buy my paid products. What? No,
no, that's just obviously a joke.
Anyway, these instructions are basically
guardrails that stop Co-work from
touching your files without asking.
Like, before deleting, overwriting, or
renaming any existing file, show me what
will change and wait for confirmation.
Think of these like training wheels on a
bicycle, right? You can remove them as
you get more experience with Co-work.
Next, under settings, capabilities,
enable both memory features. I leave
location metadata off, like that's going
to help with data privacy.
Um, set tool access to load tools when
needed, and [music] enable all of these
features down below. And finally,
whether you're on Windows or Mac, head
on over to your documents folder and
create a new subfolder called Co-work
Playground so that everything we do
today is contained in that one folder
and your other files stay untouched.
Now, when we open up a new conversation,
point Co-work at your playground folder
by choosing the folder under documents,
Co-work Playground, and if this is the
first time you're giving access, it will
ask you for access, and you can click
always allow. And just know that Co-work
is very strict about file access. So, if
you drag a file from your downloads
folder, for example, into Co-work,
right? Co-work will be able to load it,
but it can't read that file. So, if you
want to follow along today, make sure
all your files are within the playground
folder. All right, capability number
one. In plain English, Co-work can
create, edit, and organize files
directly on your computer. Diving right
into an example, I've added a folder of
over 100 receipts into the playground
folder that are a mix of PDFs and JPEGs.
>> [music]
>> I tell Co-work, "Look, I need an expense
report from the receipt photos in my
receipts folder.
Uh, give me Excel spreadsheet with a
date, vendor, category, amount, and a
totals row. If anything's blurry or
unclear, mark it verify." Thanks to the
starter pack instructions, Co-work first
lists the steps it plans to take, waits
for my confirmation, then reads every
single image, extracts the relevant
information, and outputs a formatted
Excel file directly in my folder. And as
you can see, there are also flagged rows
for me to double-check. Now, is that
possible in Claude Chat? Not really,
because Chat has a 20-file limit per
conversation, and we have more than 20
receipts, obviously. And even if we had
fewer receipts, Chat would still only
give us a spreadsheet in a chat window.
We'd then have to download and like save
somewhere else ourselves. Example two, I
have a massive 400-plus megabyte PDF
that I need broken into smaller chunks
so it's easier to upload onto AI tools.
>> [music]
>> I can just tell Co-work, "I have a
massive
PDF. I need it broken into separate
files, one per chapter or major section
with descriptive file names so I can
find what I need at a glance." And
Co-work, unlike Chat, will identify
natural section breaks, create all those
individual files,
and then save them
all back in your folder. Example three,
Notebook LM can create amazing
PowerPoint presentations, but the slides
are images that can't be edited. So, we
share the file with Co-work and say,
"These slides aren't editable. Rebuild
this as a clean, editable PowerPoint,
same content, same slide order." And
Co-work will first read all the slides
to understand the underlying content
before recreating the entire
presentation with real text boxes you
can actually modify.
Although it's not perfect, as you can
see here, it's better than just having
static images. Persistent memory is the
most important capability we're covering
today, and it's only possible thanks to
capability number one, Co-work having
local file access. Let me explain with a
silly example. If I go into Claude Chat,
open personal preferences, and add,
"Always address me as Heisenberg at the
start of every conversation." I start a
new chat, and Claude will always open
with, "Hey, Heisenberg." Say my name.
Heisenberg. You're goddamn right. That's
technically persistent memory. You tell
the AI something, and the AI remembers
that thing in future conversations
without you having to repeat yourself.
But, because Claude Chat's memory is
stored online, there's a hard limit to
how much it can hold. Co-work saves
memory to actual files on your computer,
meaning it can remember every decision
you've asked it to hold, every
preference you've set for as long as you
need. For example, if I ask Co-work,
"How many newsletter editions have we
produced together so far? Break it down
by which app each edition covered." By
the way, you should definitely sign up
for my weekly newsletter if you haven't
already.
It'll load up the relevant context,
[music] tell me we've produced seven
editions together, two for Gmail, two
for Chrome, and so on and so forth. And
remember, this was from a brand new
session with no prior conversation.
Here's a use case you can try yourself.
I have a meeting transcript within a
subfolder in Co-work Playground, and I
say, "Summarize the meeting transcript,
limit to 200 words." And after it gives
me that first output, let's say I don't
like the structure of this, and I move
the context up top, for example. Not
that that's something I'd ever do
because context always comes after, but
I tell Co-work, "I've made some changes
to your summary. Compare your version
with mine and save those preferences in
a visible root Claude MD and memory MD
files so you remember them next time."
Co-work then reconciles the two
versions, figures out what I changed,
and most importantly, and I can't stress
this enough,
most importantly, it creates something
called a Claude MD and memory MD file.
First, you can see that Co-work created
these two files under your playground
root folder. How these work is more
advanced than what we'll cover today, so
I'll save that for the next video. For
now, just know whenever you tell Co-work
to remember something, it writes to
those files. And the more it writes, the
better Co-work gets at working the way
you want it to. So, keep those two files
there. By the way, I recently revamped
my free AI toolkit from scratch. New the
original, this is a completely different
experience, link down below. Next up,
connecting Co-work to tools. By default,
Co-work can only see what's in your
folder. Connectors let it reach into the
tools you already use, like Gmail,
Google Drive, or Notion, right? So, it
can read from them and work directly
inside them. To set this up, click the
customize tab on the left, go to
connectors, click the plus icon, then
browse connectors, and you can search
for the tool that you use. At the very
minimum, to follow along today, I
recommend you connect Gmail, Google
Calendar, uh, Google Drive, and Notion
if you use it. Once you've connected
Gmail, you can tell Co-work something
like, "I want you to understand my tone
of voice. Go through my emails from the
past month to extract my tone of voice,
and save those as writing style
principles you can follow going
forward."
Co-work then proceeds to read through my
emails, locates those with substantive
writing, distills the patterns it sees,
and presents them to me, and then saves
them as writing style principles within
the memory MD file so that next time I
when I draft an email, it remembers my
tone of voice. Next example, although my
team and I take meeting notes in Notion,
we use Google Gemini to auto-generate
transcripts that are stored in Google
Drive. So, if I were an anal,
high-maintenance, unreasonable manager,
which I'm not,
I tell Cowork, "Hey, check the Gemini
transcript against the meeting notes in
Notion and surface commitments that
didn't make it into the notes." And
Cowork will read both documents, compare
what was said versus what was written,
and surface the action items, the
commitments that didn't make it into the
notes page. This is an example of two
connectors working together via Cowork.
It pulls a transcript from Google Drive,
pulls the meeting notes from Notion,
cross-references them, and surfaces what
fell through the cracks. By the way, if
you can't find the tool you want under
connectors, you can add a custom
connector through something called an
MCP, which we're not covering today, but
just know that option exists. All right,
capability number four, skills. Let's
dive right into a simple example. I just
asked Cowork to write something for me,
and I want to clean up the output. So, I
run it through a prompt template I use
all the time that makes any text more
clear and concise.
Cowork gives me a version two of the
output. I like it, and now I can tell
Cowork, "Hey, turn what you just did
into a clear and concise skill." You can
see that Cowork first runs its own skill
creator skill for this task. Then, it
asks me a few clarifying questions.
Uh this skill should apply to any text.
It should rewrite and provide a change
log so I can see what changed. And yes,
let's skip the test cases, and Cowork
proceeds to keep going. After receiving
permission, Cowork creates the skill,
and I can now just add the skill to my
Cowork with just one click.
And clicking the manage pop-up on the
top right lets me see all the skills I
currently have access to. Now, the next
time Claude gives me something and I
say, "Make it more clear and concise,"
Cowork simply runs its last output
through the skill we just created. So,
that was just a simple one-step skill,
which honestly isn't that impressive,
right? But the underlying concept is
exactly the same for a weekly report
that might take 10 steps from start to
finish. You teach Cowork what to do, how
many steps there are, and it repeats it
every single time, which is a massive
time-saver over the long run. Here's a
more practical example. When I was at
Google, different teams would send me
their weekly updates in completely
different formats, and I had to combine
everything into one clean update for
leadership. So, I share the raw updates
from the three teams with Cowork and
say, "Combine these three team updates
into one formatted weekly marketing
update I can send to leadership." After
a few minutes, Cowork produces a first
draft. And although it looks great, it's
way too dense. So, I give feedback,
"Lead with three top-line metrics across
all teams, then give me three highlights
and three lowlights. Keep it within 300
words."
Cowork revises, but gives me the output
in chat. So, just for fun, I ask for a
PDF format. And after a few more
minutes, Cowork gives me the report in
PDF, and the structure is exactly what I
wanted. So, I can finally tell Cowork,
"Now, go back through our conversation
and create a weekly report skill that
captures this entire workflow." After
asking me a few clarifying questions,
Cowork summarizes my request, asks for
permissions again, then spends a few
minutes creating the skill and running
tests with hypothetical scenarios.
Once that's all done, Cowork tells me I
need to install the skill manually,
almost like I planned for this to
happen. So, I head on over to customize,
skills, plus icon, upload a skill, find
the skill.md file that Cowork generated,
and boom, we now have a weekly report
skill. Three more things you need to
know about skills. First, to create your
own skill, head on over to customize,
skills, and make sure the skill creator
by Anthropic skill is enabled. And while
there are websites that offer skill
templates, I highly recommend creating
the first few yourself to get a hang of
creating skills from scratch. Second,
you can update a skill anytime by
telling Cowork which skill to change,
what to change about that skill, and
granting permission for the change. But
after it recreates it, you need to click
copy again to overwrite the previous
version.
I'd also recommend backing up your
skills to Google Drive because if you
move to a new computer, skills do not
transfer over. Third, under the
customize option skills tab, you'll see
if you click plus, there's an option to
create a skill with Claude. I do not
recommend doing this because it's much
more effective for you to actually just
go through the actual workflow first,
go through that back-and-forth process,
then reverse engineer the skill at the
end, like I showed you earlier today.
Moving on, at the risk of massively
oversimplifying, Cowork projects and
Claude chat projects are basically the
same thing, except Cowork projects come
with all the capabilities we've already
covered. Local file access, persistent
memory, connectors, skills, all of it.
But there is one thing worth calling
out. Cowork projects can write to their
knowledge files directly, unlike Claude
chat projects. Here's what I mean. I
have a Claude chat project called
Clarity Partner that helps me make my
writing more articulate. After a session
where we go back and forth on a piece of
writing, Claude learns something new
about my style, and I want to save that
as a permanent principle so it remembers
next time. In a chat project, after I
ask Claude to codify our learnings,
Claude is able to generate an updated
knowledge file for me. And while I am
able to add this to the project as a
knowledge file in one click, I still
have to manually delete the old file
from the project settings. In Cowork, I
can just say something like, "Codify
this principle under the Clarity Partner
project." Like when I'm explaining a
concept, always start with an example
first. And Cowork writes it directly to
the instruction file without me having
to do anything. If you're watching this
and thinking, "I want a system like this
for my own work," I'm actually building
a course that walks you through exactly
that step by step. I'll leave a link to
the waitlist down below. So, [snorts]
ironically, this next capability also
highlights one of Cowork's biggest
weaknesses. The capability itself is
simple. If you have the Claude extension
installed on your browser, Cowork can
theoretically hand off tasks to the
browser extension. I say theoretically
because I simply can't recommend the
extension right now for three practical
reasons. First, it's slow as
since most interactions require a
screenshot sent back to Cowork before it
decides what to do next. Second, it's
unreliable. There were many times where
it just stopped halfway through a task
without finishing. Talk about being
blue-balled by Claude. Third, it burns
through your usage because it overthinks
every step since it has to be super
careful when controlling your browser.
Coming back to the weakness I mentioned
earlier, while both Claude chat and
Cowork can search the web, Claude chat
gives us a lot more control. We can
force web search, enable or disable, and
we can even enable or disable this
mid-conversation. With Cowork, you can't
force a web search, and it often falls
back on the browser extension. And given
how unreliable the extension is right
now, that's a real limitation. To be
clear, scheduled tasks aren't new.
Gemini and ChatGPT have had this feature
for a while now, but I found that only
Claude Cowork's scheduled tasks work
flawlessly, and it's because of the
capabilities we've just covered. Diving
into an example, let's open up scheduled
tasks and click into this morning inbox
triage task that runs every day at 6:00
a.m. It produces a report and draft
replies for all my emails. Let's
actually just open up an example to show
you.
And because of how I set this up, the
report and the draft replies are
basically flawless. So, let me walk you
through how this works. First, long-time
viewers know I teach my inbox zero
workflow in the Workspace Academy
course, and Cowork took that inbox zero
workflow and distilled a set of rules to
follow. And thanks to capability number
one, local file access, it saved those
rules
in a markdown document, as you can see
here. Inbox zero triage workflow, and
these are the instructions. Second,
since Cowork is connected to Gmail
through the connectors feature,
capability number three, it's able to
read
all my emails, right? Map them against
my inbox zero rules and what it knows
about me to draft contextually relevant
replies. But this did not work so well
at the beginning. For the first week or
so, I had to give feedback to Cowork on
how I would have rephrased certain
emails. And thanks to persistent memory,
capability number two, Cowork remembers
those corrections and now triages my
inbox the way I would. And this does
require some setup. In my actual
Cowork folder, I have an email HQ
subfolder, and here you can see within
the Claude.md file, I have my inbox zero
triage workflow, right? And within the
memory.md file right over here, it
remembers the feedback I've given it.
For example, how I like my how I like to
sign off in my email signature, right?
So, this represents weeks of feedback
and context and basically learning, so
to speak. I know that looked
intimidating, but don't worry, I'm going
to dive much deeper in future videos.
So, see you soon, and in the meantime,
have a great one.